docs/dev.md, before:

# Developer Guide

MiSTer Extensions is a single Go project that outputs multiple individual binary applications. The goal of the project is to create a unified library to manage all aspects of a MiSTer system, and offer a set of modular applications that create a rich user experience for the MiSTer userspace.

Applications should:
- Be usable with only a controller for at least the core functionality
- Be installable by copying a single binary and running it from the Scripts menu
- Not require any external dependencies, including applications shipped with the MiSTer Linux image
- Minimise writes to the SD card and disk space usage
- Minimise polluting the filesystem so they're easy to uninstall
- Minimise CPU usage when running as a daemon

## Development Environment

The project is primarily written in Go, uses Mage for build scripts and Docker for MiSTer builds. Development can be done on any platform, though the build system currently assumes a Linux environment and applications which use C binding libraries can be challenging to build on Windows.

Most applications use a lot of MiSTer-specific paths and files to function. They will mostly work on a desktop with a `/media/fat` directory created to match a MiSTer system, but this generally won't work great beyond specific testing. The usual development cycle is to build a MiSTer ARM binary, copy it to your own MiSTer and run on there to test.

### Dependencies

- [Go](https://go.dev/)
  
  The whole meat of the project. Version 1.18 or newer.

- [Mage](https://magefile.org/)

  Used for all builds and automations in the project. Easiest way to get it running is install the binary somewhere globally, rather than installing via the Go package manager as it recommends.

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)

  Used for building all the MiSTer binaries. You also need to configure cross-compilation in Docker since ARM images are used for the build process. Podman should also work, but the build scripts use Docker explicitly.

### Optional Dependencies

- [NCURSES](https://tldp.org/HOWTO/NCURSES-Programming-HOWTO/)

  Just the dev files, and whatever version your favourite distro offers. This is only necessary if you want to build desktop versions of the applications that have GUIs. MiSTer builds pull this in automatically for the Docker images. Don't even bother trying to get this to work on Windows.

- [Python](https://www.python.org/)

  Used for some scripts and older projects. Remember that MiSTer currently ships with version 3.9, so don't use any newer Python features.

## Building

To start, you can run `go mod download` from the root of the project folder. This will download all dependencies used by the project. Builds automatically do this, but running it now will stop your editor from complaining about missing modules.

All build steps are done with the `mage` command run from the root of the project folder. Run `mage` by itself to see a list of available commands.

Before building MiSTer binaries, you'll also need to build the Docker image it uses. Just run `mage makeArmImage` to add it to your system.

Built binaries will be created in the `bin` directory under its appropriate architecture subdirectory.

Check the `apps` variable for a list of application target names near the top of the `magefile.go` file. These are the targets used for the commands below. Usually they should match the application folder name in the `cmd` folder.

These are the important commands:

- `mage build <target>`

  Builds a binary of the target application for the current system.

- `mage mister <target>`

  Builds a binary of the target application for MiSTer.

- `mage release <target>`

  Builds a binary of the target application for MiSTer, copies it to the appropriate folder in `releases`, generates an updated `<target>.json` repo file for use with `update` and `update_all` on MiSTer and updates the combined `all.json` repo file.

Binary releases all go in the `releases` folder.

## Project Layout

This is an overview of all the major files and folders in the project.

### cmd

Each folder in here represents a separate application and is the entry point for each binary. The complexity depends on the application, but as much as possible they should be using the shared library. They cannot depend on or reference each other.

### docs

All application and project documentation and notes. Markdown format is preferred.

### pkg

The shared library for the whole project.

#### config

All global configuration settings, MiSTer environment paths and the module for parsing per-app .ini configuration files. If you're hardcoding a path or a special value, it should go here instead.

#### curses

For showing a GUI/TUI using curses. These should be modular as much as possible and shareable between applications.

#### games

All functions related to indexing, searching and interacting with game files on a system.

The `systems.go` file is an especially important one, it defines every core on a MiSTer and what its capabilities are. The `systems.md` file in the `docs` folder is generated from this file.

#### input

For interacting with and impersonating input devices.

#### mister

Functions for interacting with various parts of the MiSTer system. Somewhat of a catch-all for modules that aren't big enough for their own folder. Does things like generating and running MGL files, managing the startup services file and reading the main MiSTer .ini file.

#### sqlindex

Not currently used. This is a proof-of-concept of a searchable index of game files. Works fine but is quite slow compared to the `txtindex` module.

#### txtindex

A text-based read-only searchable index of all the game files on a system. It generates a simple set of text files listing all the games on a MiSTer and stores them in a single tarball. Generates very quickly and searching is almost instant.

#### utils

Simple generic functions used throughout the project. This is mostly used for common functions that are not present in the Go stdlib for some reason.

### releases

Final binary releases and repo files go here. Automatically generated from build script.

### scripts

Various support scripts for project.

Commit message:

Add warning note to dev docs

docs/dev.md, after:

# Developer Guide

MiSTer Extensions is a single Go project that outputs multiple individual binary applications. The goal of the project is to create a unified library to manage all aspects of a MiSTer system, and offer a set of modular applications that create a rich user experience for the MiSTer userspace.

Applications should:
- Be usable with only a controller for at least the core functionality
- Be installable by copying a single binary and running it from the Scripts menu
- Not require any external dependencies, including applications shipped with the MiSTer Linux image
- Minimise writes to the SD card and disk space usage
- Minimise polluting the filesystem so they're easy to uninstall
- Minimise CPU usage when running as a daemon

## Development Environment

The project is primarily written in Go, uses Mage for build scripts and Docker for MiSTer builds. Development can be done on any platform, though the build system currently assumes a Linux environment and applications which use C binding libraries can be challenging to build on Windows.

Most applications use a lot of MiSTer-specific paths and files to function. They will mostly work on a desktop with a `/media/fat` directory created to match a MiSTer system, but this generally won't work great beyond specific testing. The usual development cycle is to build a MiSTer ARM binary, copy it to your own MiSTer and run on there to test.

### Dependencies

- [Go](https://go.dev/)
  
  The whole meat of the project. Version 1.18 or newer.

- [Mage](https://magefile.org/)

  Used for all builds and automations in the project. Easiest way to get it running is install the binary somewhere globally, rather than installing via the Go package manager as it recommends.

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)

  Used for building all the MiSTer binaries. You also need to configure cross-compilation in Docker since ARM images are used for the build process. Podman should also work, but the build scripts use Docker explicitly.

### Optional Dependencies

- [ncurses](https://tldp.org/HOWTO/NCURSES-Programming-HOWTO/)

  Just the dev files, and whatever version your favourite distro offers. This is only necessary if you want to build desktop versions of the applications that have GUIs. MiSTer builds pull this in automatically for the Docker images. Don't even bother trying to get this to work on Windows.

- [Python](https://www.python.org/)

  Used for some scripts and older projects. Remember that MiSTer currently ships with version 3.9, so don't use any newer Python features.

## Building

To start, you can run `go mod download` from the root of the project folder. This will download all dependencies used by the project. Builds automatically do this, but running it now will stop your editor from complaining about missing modules.

All build steps are done with the `mage` command run from the root of the project folder. Run `mage` by itself to see a list of available commands.

Before building MiSTer binaries, you'll also need to build the Docker image it uses. Just run `mage makeArmImage` to add it to your system.

Built binaries will be created in the `bin` directory under its appropriate architecture subdirectory.

Check the `apps` variable for a list of application target names near the top of the `magefile.go` file. These are the targets used for the commands below. Usually they should match the application folder name in the `cmd` folder.

These are the important commands:

- `mage build <target>`

  Builds a binary of the target application for the current system.

- `mage mister <target>`

  Builds a binary of the target application for MiSTer.

- `mage release <target>`

  Builds a binary of the target application for MiSTer, copies it to the appropriate folder in `releases`, generates an updated `<target>.json` repo file for use with `update` and `update_all` on MiSTer and updates the combined `all.json` repo file.

Binary releases all go in the `releases` folder.

Some builds may display warnings such as this:

```
/usr/bin/ld: /tmp/go-link-600559994/000029.o: in function `mygetgrouplist':
/_/os/user/getgrouplist_unix.go:15: warning: Using 'getgrouplist' in statically linked applications requires at runtime the shared libraries from the glibc version used for linking
```

They can be ignored. Some low-level things do not support static linking, but the Docker build environment matches the MiSTer image just to be safe (basically just the glibc major version).

## Project Layout

This is an overview of all the major files and folders in the project.

### cmd

Each folder in here represents a separate application and is the entry point for each binary. The complexity depends on the application, but as much as possible they should be using the shared library. They cannot depend on or reference each other.

### docs

All application and project documentation and notes. Markdown format is preferred.

### pkg

The shared library for the whole project.

#### config

All global configuration settings, MiSTer environment paths and the module for parsing per-app .ini configuration files. If you're hardcoding a path or a special value, it should go here instead.

#### curses

For showing a GUI/TUI using curses. These should be modular as much as possible and shareable between applications.

#### games

All functions related to indexing, searching and interacting with game files on a system.

The `systems.go` file is an especially important one, it defines every core on a MiSTer and what its capabilities are. The `systems.md` file in the `docs` folder is generated from this file.

#### input

For interacting with and impersonating input devices.

#### mister

Functions for interacting with various parts of the MiSTer system. Somewhat of a catch-all for modules that aren't big enough for their own folder. Does things like generating and running MGL files, managing the startup services file and reading the main MiSTer .ini file.

#### sqlindex

Not currently used. This is a proof-of-concept of a searchable index of game files. Works fine but is quite slow compared to the `txtindex` module.

#### txtindex

A text-based read-only searchable index of all the game files on a system. It generates a simple set of text files listing all the games on a MiSTer and stores them in a single tarball. Generates very quickly and searching is almost instant.

#### utils

Simple generic functions used throughout the project. This is mostly used for common functions that are not present in the Go stdlib for some reason.

### releases

Final binary releases and repo files go here. Automatically generated from build script.

### scripts

Various support scripts for project.
