docs/nfc.md, before:

# NFC

⚠️ ***Work in progress***

NFC is a service for loading your favourite cores using NFC tags or cards.

## Hardware required

Any reader compatible with [libnfc](https://nfc-tools.github.io/projects/libnfc/) can be plugged straight into the MiSTer.

This was developed and tested with a PN532 NFC module v3 connected to a FTDI USB to TTL cable.

Supported tags types: NTAG 213, NTAG 215, NTAG 216

## Setup

On your MiSTer, create a `/etc/nfc/libnfc.conf` with the following content matching your hardware:

```
device.name = "microBuilder.eu"
device.connstring = "pn532_uart:/dev/ttyUSB0"
```
## Method 1: Writing games to a card (Recommended)
Write a single text record to the NFC tag using your favourite writing software e.g. [NFC Tools](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.wakdev.wdnfc) on Android. The content should be the name of a mgl or mra relative to `/media/fat/` e.g.

```
_Arcade/1942 (Revision B).mra
```

or

```
_Favourites/Castlevania - Aria of Sorrow.mgl
```

## Method 2: Mapping Card UID to a game (Fallback)
Create a csv file: `/media/fat/nfc-mapping.csv` in the format:

```csv
040fa2e2356281,_Arcade/1942 (Revision B).mra
0427d3e2356280,_Arcade/Arkanoid (Japan).mra
```

[Download](https://github.com/wizzomafizzo/mrext/releases/latest/download/nfc.sh) and copy

`./nfc.sh` to your MiSTer and run it. When scanning a card you should see something like:

```
root@MiSTer:/tmp>./nfc.sh
2023/08/02 20:29:34 MiSTer NFC Reader (libnfc version1.8.0)
2023/08/02 20:29:34 Loaded 5 NFC mappings from the CSV
2023/08/02 20:29:34 Opened:  microBuilder.eu pn532_uart:/dev/ttyUSB0
2023/08/02 20:29:40 New card UID: 04fa7cfa904980
2023/08/02 20:29:40 Card hex: 0103a00c340325d101215402656e4265207375726520746f206472696e6b20796f7572204f76616c74696e65fe00000002656e6d6f72652074657874fe0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
2023/08/02 20:29:40 Decoded text NDEF is: Be sure to drink your Ovaltine
2023/08/02 20:29:40 Core does not exist: /media/fat/Be sure to drink your Ovaltine
2023/08/02 20:29:48 New card UID: 046100e2356284
2023/08/02 20:29:48 Card hex: a500030020e840fc23fb7bbced2e56e876e43495de17f29f43da15d21fc5e5d3f6d047fa92c66bcf04a49a1e21136434f7ab4f840e139e519c1dd79d989e53b411cb6feb01030000024f09020d12c50b9c4b2e6483593d141bb38afdee5f635f4a2b70bdd918404cfda928cd34a9a371ea974fa1579d38b11f5348708df9f96cfc393bde90db8d672c92153224d51e2e
2023/08/02 20:29:48 No text NDEF found, falling back to UID mapping in CSV file
2023/08/02 20:29:48 Loading core: /media/fat/_Arcade/Arkanoid (Japan).mra
2023/08/02 20:29:54 New card UID: 04087cfa904981
2023/08/02 20:29:54 Card hex: 0103a00c340323d1011f5402656e5f4172636164652f41726b616e6f696420284a6170616e292e6d7261fe0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
2023/08/02 20:29:54 Decoded text NDEF is: _Arcade/Arkanoid (Japan).mra
2023/08/02 20:29:54 Loading core: /media/fat/_Arcade/Arkanoid (Japan).mra
```

Commit message:

Load connection string from nfc.ini

docs/nfc.md, after:

# NFC

⚠️ ***Work in progress***

NFC is a service for loading your favourite cores using NFC tags or cards.

## Hardware required

Any reader compatible with [libnfc](https://nfc-tools.github.io/projects/libnfc/) can be plugged straight into the MiSTer.

Supported tags types: NTAG 213, NTAG 215, NTAG 216

## Setup

It should work out of the box with a `ACR122U USB NFC reader`
If you are using a PN532 connected to a USB -> TTL cable then the following config may be needed in `/media/fat/Scripts/nfc.ini`:

```
[nfc]
connection_string="pn532_uart:/dev/ttyUSB0"
```

## Method 1: Writing games to a card (Recommended)
Write a single text record to the NFC tag using your favourite writing software e.g. [NFC Tools](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.wakdev.wdnfc) on Android. The content should be the name of a mgl or mra relative to `/media/fat/` e.g.

```
_Arcade/1942 (Revision B).mra
```

or

```
_Favourites/Castlevania - Aria of Sorrow.mgl
```

## Method 2: Mapping Card UID to a game (Fallback)
Create a csv file: `/media/fat/nfc-mapping.csv` in the format:

```csv
040fa2e2356281,_Arcade/1942 (Revision B).mra
0427d3e2356280,_Arcade/Arkanoid (Japan).mra
```

[Download](https://github.com/wizzomafizzo/mrext/releases/latest/download/nfc.sh) and copy

`./nfc.sh` to your MiSTer and run it. When scanning a card you should see something like:

```
root@MiSTer:/tmp>./nfc.sh
2023/08/02 20:29:34 MiSTer NFC Reader (libnfc version1.8.0)
2023/08/02 20:29:34 Loaded 5 NFC mappings from the CSV
2023/08/02 20:29:34 Opened:  microBuilder.eu pn532_uart:/dev/ttyUSB0
2023/08/02 20:29:40 New card UID: 04fa7cfa904980
2023/08/02 20:29:40 Card hex: 0103a00c340325d101215402656e4265207375726520746f206472696e6b20796f7572204f76616c74696e65fe00000002656e6d6f72652074657874fe0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
2023/08/02 20:29:40 Decoded text NDEF is: Be sure to drink your Ovaltine
2023/08/02 20:29:40 Core does not exist: /media/fat/Be sure to drink your Ovaltine
2023/08/02 20:29:48 New card UID: 046100e2356284
2023/08/02 20:29:48 Card hex: a500030020e840fc23fb7bbced2e56e876e43495de17f29f43da15d21fc5e5d3f6d047fa92c66bcf04a49a1e21136434f7ab4f840e139e519c1dd79d989e53b411cb6feb01030000024f09020d12c50b9c4b2e6483593d141bb38afdee5f635f4a2b70bdd918404cfda928cd34a9a371ea974fa1579d38b11f5348708df9f96cfc393bde90db8d672c92153224d51e2e
2023/08/02 20:29:48 No text NDEF found, falling back to UID mapping in CSV file
2023/08/02 20:29:48 Loading core: /media/fat/_Arcade/Arkanoid (Japan).mra
2023/08/02 20:29:54 New card UID: 04087cfa904981
2023/08/02 20:29:54 Card hex: 0103a00c340323d1011f5402656e5f4172636164652f41726b616e6f696420284a6170616e292e6d7261fe0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
2023/08/02 20:29:54 Decoded text NDEF is: _Arcade/Arkanoid (Japan).mra
2023/08/02 20:29:54 Loading core: /media/fat/_Arcade/Arkanoid (Japan).mra
```
